content/posts/conflicted.md, before:

+++
date = '2025-09-29T23:00:36+03:00'
draft = false
title = 'Conflicted'
+++
## Introduction
---
I have always had conflicting emotions regarding some things; they seem to change suddenly and over time without any discernible logic. This has caused difficulties in choosing and doing things, leading me to often ignore my problems and just carry on. Now that I'm trying to face my emotions and deal with them, this struggle has become ever more prevalent.

In the [previous post](https://blog.katvef.fi/posts/used/), I talked about my feeling of being used by my father to gain validation for himself and feeling like everything he has done was for his own benefit. I also told that my father is very close to me. This combination has caused a lot of difficult emotions and internal conflicts. I have also noticed my brain attempting to forget everything and act like everything is fine and nothing has happened, but I consciously fight this want and am attempting to process the situation. I wish I could act like nothing happened, but things are going to change and that would simply cause more damage.


## The Situation
---
I love my father and I think he loves me, but I feel so conflicted. I think he truly loves me and meant no harm, but deep inside I have this feeling that I shouldn't trust him. When I imagine him in my mind, at one moment he is my loving father, and at another he is the monster who has used me. I try to forget everything, but I won't let myself. I will not allow my mind to play tricks on me anymore – I will force myself to remember so that I can avoid this happening again, but at the same time I feel like I have already forgiven him. My brain wants to forgive him, but how would I know his motives? How can I know what he actually thinks? How can I believe anything he says? But then again, why should I assume the worst? Deep down I believe he had good intentions, but my brain also says he did it for himself. All his actions may have been at least in part for me, but I *know* he did everything for himself. I don't know how much of his actions have been of true love. He has told us he wants to act better than his parents, but I don't know if it's for him or for us – his children.

I have always, or as long as I remember properly (which is only a few years), had a strong fear of abandonment and losing my father is not something I want, so I really want to hold on to him no matter what. On the other hand I want push him away to protect myself. I want to keep doing things with my father, such as playing TTRPGs and talking about nerdy stuff, but I don't want to let him close again. I feel like being vulnerable near him could lead to me being used again. Furthermore, I don't actually think using me was his intention anymore, but then again, how can I truly know his intentions? Anything he says could be a lie.

Trust issues aren't anything new to me. I myself lie a lot and am pretty good at it, though it has mostly been compulsive lying to protect myself – I often don't even think about the lie. In addition to this, I don't want to be seen as a liar, so I have learnt to make my lies believable and consistent, as well as making some of them true retroactively so no-one knows I'm a liar. I do not wish to lie, and sometimes the lies even harm me, since I lie to medical personnel and am not able to get help, but my need to not be seen as a liar makes me unable to tell them I lied. My own lying has likely contributed heavily to my trust issues and have found myself saying many a times “*Anyone can say anything*”.

To get back to the original point, this conflict is one of the most difficult and will likely take weeks, if not months to resolve. Even though this is only one of many of my internal conflicts, I feel like it's the most important one right now and needs to be resolved ASAP, so I have already booked a time with my school psychologist and messaged her about the situation.

I feel like I overreacted originally; I didn't give myself enough time to process this. Still, I feel like my reaction was valid and correct, but I can't help but feel the seed of self-doubt in my head. It doesn't help that I don't trust myself at all, I just have to go with the gut feeling of which one is correct, but this time, the gut feeling is to trust him while I'm telling my body to run, it wants to go closer. It wants to fix everything and if it can't, it wants to simply forget. I have already let myself forget many things, such as how I was bullied in primary school and a lot of other things **I can't remember**. Many things have left only a shadow in my mind – a spark of doubt and fear I feel in specific situations; which I'm only now beginning to listen.

As I said in the previous post, my brain is trying to forget all the problems and the divorce. I'm sure this is the same process it has done many a times before to protect myself, such as when my father moved away for a bit over a year. We still got to see him every so often, but I can't remember much about it and think it hasn't caused any sort of damage. Even now, I don't think much of it, but with *the power of hindsight*, I am now sure it caused some sort of trauma, maybe my fear of abandonment. Likely not alone, but probably contributed a lot to it.

Now that I've thought about the time when my father moved away, I think I understand my reaction to my current situation better: my father truly has been hurt by my mother – not intentionally, that I am 100% sure of, but she is the kind of personality to hold her morals at an extremely high priority. I also now understand that my mother truly cares for me, I think my father also does, but I'm sure I'll flip to hating them again soon enough. My splitting is pretty strong and feels like recent events has made it ever stronger. I hope this situation resolves well, though I am a bit pessimistic about everything.


## Afterword
---
Writing this blog has been helpful and has aided me in processing this situation, but I also hope this helps people understand me and themselves better when they read this. I also encourage everyone reading this to **seek a therapist** if you are struggling with suicidial thoughts, self-harm, depression, anxiety, or have harmed anyone, itentionally or unintentionally. Also seek a therapist if **you** have been hurt.

> Hurt people hurt people

Commit message:

Changed heading language and added description to posts

content/posts/conflicted.md, after:

---
date: 2025-09-29
title: Conflicted
description: Emotional conflicts are difficult, but even more so when they are rooted in trauma.
---
## Introduction
---
I have always had conflicting emotions regarding some things; they seem to change suddenly and over time without any discernible logic. This has caused difficulties in choosing and doing things, leading me to often ignore my problems and just carry on. Now that I'm trying to face my emotions and deal with them, this struggle has become ever more prevalent.

In the [previous post](https://blog.katvef.fi/posts/used/), I talked about my feeling of being used by my father to gain validation for himself and feeling like everything he has done was for his own benefit. I also told that my father is very close to me. This combination has caused a lot of difficult emotions and internal conflicts. I have also noticed my brain attempting to forget everything and act like everything is fine and nothing has happened, but I consciously fight this want and am attempting to process the situation. I wish I could act like nothing happened, but things are going to change and that would simply cause more damage.


## The Situation
---
I love my father and I think he loves me, but I feel so conflicted. I think he truly loves me and meant no harm, but deep inside I have this feeling that I shouldn't trust him. When I imagine him in my mind, at one moment he is my loving father, and at another he is the monster who has used me. I try to forget everything, but I won't let myself. I will not allow my mind to play tricks on me anymore – I will force myself to remember so that I can avoid this happening again, but at the same time I feel like I have already forgiven him. My brain wants to forgive him, but how would I know his motives? How can I know what he actually thinks? How can I believe anything he says? But then again, why should I assume the worst? Deep down I believe he had good intentions, but my brain also says he did it for himself. All his actions may have been at least in part for me, but I *know* he did everything for himself. I don't know how much of his actions have been of true love. He has told us he wants to act better than his parents, but I don't know if it's for him or for us – his children.

I have always, or as long as I remember properly (which is only a few years), had a strong fear of abandonment and losing my father is not something I want, so I really want to hold on to him no matter what. On the other hand I want push him away to protect myself. I want to keep doing things with my father, such as playing TTRPGs and talking about nerdy stuff, but I don't want to let him close again. I feel like being vulnerable near him could lead to me being used again. Furthermore, I don't actually think using me was his intention anymore, but then again, how can I truly know his intentions? Anything he says could be a lie.

Trust issues aren't anything new to me. I myself lie a lot and am pretty good at it, though it has mostly been compulsive lying to protect myself – I often don't even think about the lie. In addition to this, I don't want to be seen as a liar, so I have learnt to make my lies believable and consistent, as well as making some of them true retroactively so no-one knows I'm a liar. I do not wish to lie, and sometimes the lies even harm me, since I lie to medical personnel and am not able to get help, but my need to not be seen as a liar makes me unable to tell them I lied. My own lying has likely contributed heavily to my trust issues and have found myself saying many a times “*Anyone can say anything*”.

To get back to the original point, this conflict is one of the most difficult and will likely take weeks, if not months to resolve. Even though this is only one of many of my internal conflicts, I feel like it's the most important one right now and needs to be resolved ASAP, so I have already booked a time with my school psychologist and messaged her about the situation.

I feel like I overreacted originally; I didn't give myself enough time to process this. Still, I feel like my reaction was valid and correct, but I can't help but feel the seed of self-doubt in my head. It doesn't help that I don't trust myself at all, I just have to go with the gut feeling of which one is correct, but this time, the gut feeling is to trust him while I'm telling my body to run, it wants to go closer. It wants to fix everything and if it can't, it wants to simply forget. I have already let myself forget many things, such as how I was bullied in primary school and a lot of other things **I can't remember**. Many things have left only a shadow in my mind – a spark of doubt and fear I feel in specific situations; which I'm only now beginning to listen.

As I said in the previous post, my brain is trying to forget all the problems and the divorce. I'm sure this is the same process it has done many a times before to protect myself, such as when my father moved away for a bit over a year. We still got to see him every so often, but I can't remember much about it and think it hasn't caused any sort of damage. Even now, I don't think much of it, but with *the power of hindsight*, I am now sure it caused some sort of trauma, maybe my fear of abandonment. Likely not alone, but probably contributed a lot to it.

Now that I've thought about the time when my father moved away, I think I understand my reaction to my current situation better: my father truly has been hurt by my mother – not intentionally, that I am 100% sure of, but she is the kind of personality to hold her morals at an extremely high priority. I also now understand that my mother truly cares for me, I think my father also does, but I'm sure I'll flip to hating them again soon enough. My splitting is pretty strong and feels like recent events has made it ever stronger. I hope this situation resolves well, though I am a bit pessimistic about everything.


## Afterword
---
Writing this blog has been helpful and has aided me in processing this situation, but I also hope this helps people understand me and themselves better when they read this. I also encourage everyone reading this to **seek a therapist** if you are struggling with suicidial thoughts, self-harm, depression, anxiety, or have harmed anyone, itentionally or unintentionally. Also seek a therapist if **you** have been hurt.

> Hurt people hurt people
