content/posts/dysphoria_and_euphoria.md, before:

---
date: 2025-09-30
draft: true
isStarred: true
title: WIP – Dysphoria & Euphoria
---
## Introduction
---
Gender dysphoria is a deep feeling of unhappiness and dissatisfaction caused by the inconsistency between the gender identity and the assigned sex of a person. Gender euphoria is the opposite; it's the enjoyment and satisfaction caused by doing things that affirm your gender. You don't necessarily need to experience gender dysphoria to be trans – gender euphoria may even be a stronger sign. Some things, such as pronouns, may not cause dysphoria, but being correctly gendered may cause euphoria.


## My experience
---
Personally, the strongest cause of dysphoria to me is my body. It feels just *wrong*. Imagine if you are doing something, and then you just feel this sudden feeling that what's inside and outside do not match; everything is wrong, and you just want it all to end – one way or another. It is an immense surge of feelings and intrusive thoughts that pulls you down to your knees. More than a few times I've had a panic attack after a show due to having to look at my body, but shaving my legs, for example, causes euphoria, which pushes the panic attack away.

For a good while, looking at my chest made me feel like there's something missing; now I understand that what is missing are breasts. Wanting thicker thighs and wider hips was clear from a pretty young age, and due to that I thought I was a femboy – until I heard of trans people. After doing a bit of a deep dive, as I usually do, into gender identity and I thought I was a trans woman – but it didn't feel right. After that, I ended up identifying the most with non-binary, but even that didn't feel right.

WIP

Commit message:

Added summary to all pages

content/posts/dysphoria_and_euphoria.md, after:

---
date: 2025-09-30
draft: true
isStarred: true
title: WIP – Dysphoria & Euphoria
summary: My epxerience with gender dysphoria and euphoria
---
## Introduction
---
Gender dysphoria is a deep feeling of unhappiness and dissatisfaction caused by the inconsistency between the gender identity and the assigned sex of a person. Gender euphoria is the opposite; it's the enjoyment and satisfaction caused by doing things that affirm your gender. You don't necessarily need to experience gender dysphoria to be trans – gender euphoria may even be a stronger sign. Some things, such as pronouns, may not cause dysphoria, but being correctly gendered may cause euphoria.


## My experience
---
Personally, the strongest cause of dysphoria to me is my body. It feels just *wrong*. Imagine if you are doing something, and then you just feel this sudden feeling that what's inside and outside do not match; everything is wrong, and you just want it all to end – one way or another. It is an immense surge of feelings and intrusive thoughts that pulls you down to your knees. More than a few times I've had a panic attack after a show due to having to look at my body, but shaving my legs, for example, causes euphoria, which pushes the panic attack away.

For a good while, looking at my chest made me feel like there's something missing; now I understand that what is missing are breasts. Wanting thicker thighs and wider hips was clear from a pretty young age, and due to that I thought I was a femboy – until I heard of trans people. After doing a bit of a deep dive, as I usually do, into gender identity and I thought I was a trans woman – but it didn't feel right. After that, I ended up identifying the most with non-binary, but even that didn't feel right.

WIP
