---
date: 2025-09-30
isStarred: true
title: Dysphoria & Euphoria
summary: My epxerience with gender dysphoria and euphoria + some other stuff about my gender identity
---
## Introduction
---
Gender dysphoria is a deep feeling of unhappiness and dissatisfaction caused by the inconsistency
between the gender identity and the assigned sex of a person. Gender euphoria is the opposite; it's
the enjoyment and satisfaction caused by doing things that affirm your gender. You don't necessarily
need to experience gender dysphoria to be trans – gender euphoria may even be a stronger sign. Some
things, such as pronouns, may not cause dysphoria, but being correctly gendered may cause euphoria.


## My experience
---
Personally, the strongest cause of dysphoria to me is my body. It feels just *wrong*. Imagine if you
are doing something, and then you just feel this sudden feeling that what's inside and outside do not
match; everything is wrong, and you just want it all to end – one way or another. It is an immense
surge of feelings and intrusive thoughts that pulls you down to your knees. More than a few times I've
had a panic attack after a show due to having to look at my body, but shaving my legs, for example,
causes euphoria, which pushes the panic attack away.

For a good while, looking at my chest made me feel like there's something missing; now I understand
that what is missing are breasts. Wanting thicker thighs and wider hips was clear from a pretty young
age, and due to that I thought I was a femboy – until I heard of trans people. After doing a bit of a
deep dive, as I usually do, into gender identity and I thought I was a trans woman – but it didn't
feel right. After that, I ended up identifying the most with non-binary, but even that didn't feel right.

My face is another strong source of dysphoria – it just looks so masculine. The strong jawline and
square shape with the thick eyebrows look ugly to me. I'd rather have a rounder face with lighter
eyebrows. My face has never been a part of my self I like, but my disgust towards it has increased
overtime as I have begun to understand myself better. I think my face looks attractive, but it's just
not mine. That's a thing with my whole body; I think it looks good, but it's not the body I want. In
another world, I'd be happy in my body, though likely still non-binary, since my gender identity is
extremely complex and difficult to grasp even for me, and I dislike the whole concept of gender.

I **love** being called a girl, it gives me so much euphoria and just feels *right*, though I also love it
when I'm called a good boy. It doesn't really matter what I am called; I just want to be seen as *not
a man*. I hate masculinity and prefer being seen as more feminine, but I still like doing "dude stuff"
with my friends. I like being cute, but am unable to due to fear of not being accepted (and thus be
abandoned). The mask is so strong that it is difficult even if I wanted, so I feel like myself the
most when I'm alone. I couldn't even tell this to someone in-person; the only reason I'm able to tell
anything here is because It's just some text I'm writing, no-one *has to* read anything here, so to my
brain it might as well be that no-one reads this.<br>
<span style="opacity:0.5;">*It seems I've gone off-topic again...*</span>

My body hair, especially on legs, is extremely dysphoric for me, but on the other hand, feeling them
after shaving is very euphoric. I know women have body hair too, but testosterone does make body hair
grow faster and be thicker. Facial hair is simply offputting on my face; I don't want to see it.
Unfortunately though, my facial hair grows **fast**; I have to shave daily and you can see a shadow in
just a few hours. I've been thinking of starting to wear a mask, but it might be a bit odd – gotta
think about it a bit more.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;" title="hormone replacement therapy">HRT</span>* will likely
be extremely euphoric for me when I get it. I've been studying all the effects of estrogen and all of
them seem so nice! Getting HRT is a bit difficult here in Finland due to the long wait times and the
process being slow, but after that, everything is pretty much free. I should really get an appointment
with my doctor, but it's still really difficult for me to talk about it to people. I have yet to
properly start my social transition, but I know *roughly* what I want – I just need to gather up the courage.
