---
date: 2025-10-03
title: Gender? What gender?
summary: What is gender? And what is my gender? How do I experience it?
---
## Introduction
Gender is a fucking complex part of your identity. It defines some of the deepest parts of you, and is often forced on you without your consent based on a 50-50 roll. While the assigned gender is usually the corrects one, I think most people don't actually fully identify with it. In addition, forcing a set of stereotypes on young teenagers can be, and is, extremely harmful to their development; especially the stigma around people not conforming to the stereotype of their gender is highly stressful and especially difficult for queer youth suppressing their true identity, possibly without even knowing it.

As I mentioned in the previous paragraph, I don't think most people actually fit neatly in the binary gender. Many males have some more feminine traits, while others are extremely masculine. In contrast, many females are more masculine presenting, while some are extremely feminine. How one presents their gender, however, doesn't define their gender; anyone can present their gender however they want. How one feels about their gender and presents it is completely personal. Someone completely comfortable being a man can present highly femininely while still feeling like a man. All I am saying is I think more people are on the non-binary spectrum than they realize.


## What even is gender?
Gender is a social construct humans have created to categorize people (humans seem to love categorizing things). There is no biological basis for the concept on gender. Yes, there are two sexes, but there is historical evidence years thousands of years back proving that many societies have had more than two social genders. The [ancient Egyptians](https://heritage-key.com/blogs/ann/transgender-mummy-discovered-birmingham-museum-collection/) are possibly some of the earliest evidence of people being transgender.

Personally, I don't even completely understand why people are so stuck to the gender binary – why should every woman or man be the same? Why are women so sexualized? Why should *34 genes* (which don't even affect the body much apart from the genitals, secondary sex characteristics are almost completely defined by hormones) define your personality? Gender is just so arbitrary, why can't I just wear and do what I want? Why must I make myself fit into these arbitrarily set rules that are forced on me?


## My gender identity
My gender identity is too complex for me to understand, but I think I understand enough of it to speak about it. My first realization that I am not a man came to me when I was 13 or 14 years old. Even before that, I had not understood gender as a concept completely, I just saw people with different bodies; I didn't think their personality was much different, or they should act differently because of it. I was highly distressed by the situation, especially because I was unable to talk to anyone about it since I didn't have a safe relationship with my parents; I had to process it all by myself without any aid. I feel my gender changes over time, but still stays the same. Sometimes I feel completely like a woman, sometimes I feel a bit both, and sometimes I feel *slightly* a boy. There are some times when I feel like neither or some other unnamed gender.

The most difficult part about my gender is the conflicting wants: Most of the time I'm comfortable having a penis, sometimes I want a vagina, and sometimes I want neither. There are even times when I want both genitals. I want to have sex with men in a gay way, but I don't want to be a man. I want to have sex with women in a gay way, but I do want to be a man sometimes. This all is just so confusing! I want breasts and think I would look better with breasts in most of my outfits, but sometimes a flat chest might look better. I just wish gender wasn't a thing I need to think about and could just be myself.

I completely support the abolishment of gender as a concept and think that gender has no place in a transhumanist society. We don't *need* these labels for genders or sexualities, but humans feel more comfortable when they can define who they are; not only to themselves, but also to others. On the topic of transhumanity, sometimes I wish I was even something other than human; I don't know what exactly, I just don't want to be human.

The presentation of my gender is far more feminine than I am able to present. I am currently working on my anxiety and attempting to present more feminine, but it's just difficult. In the post about [dysphoria and euphoria](https://blog.katvef.fi/posts/dysphoria_and_euphoria), I talked about some things that cause me gender dysphoria or euphoria. I noted here that I **hate** my face; I wish I could cover it up with a mask, but I feel too anxious to do it. Makeup is also something that I'd like to try, but here anxiety strikes again! It is really difficult to be yourself or know who you are and which of your wants are something you *actually* want and not something you've picked up from others that you should be like.

Overall my gender presentation is something I need to work on to improve my mental health, but luckily I have some supportive friends and family, though this doesn't really decrease the anxiety. The more people know about my problems, the more anxious I become. I don't want others to be worried about me or cause them any trouble.

Fixing everything is difficult, and sometimes I just wish it all would end. Everything is just so confusing and I doubt every thought I have. I **know** I want to be more feminine, but I can't help doubt myself. I know that the doubt is brought on by trauma, but then I doubt that I know that. Living like this is difficult and death seems much easier – and faster. Fixing everything is a slow process, but I think I'm willing to live through that if I just get enough support.
